Elastic cloud compute or EC2 is a foundational piece of
AWS's cloud computing platform and
is a service that provides servers for rent in the cloud.
Users are able to manage the servers and deploy applications to it.
These servers are called instances.
So you will hear developers refer to an EC2 instance.
Instances are actual physical servers in an AZ or data center.
So EC2 is not considered serverless.
A nice feature of EC2 is that it is elastic like the name
says and can grow or shrink based on the needs or load on the application.
Essentially, additional servers can be automatically
provisioned or servers that aren't needed anymore can be removed.
You have re-sizable compute capacity in the Cloud which is pretty amazing.
You even have the ability to manage the server and install applications on it.
So let's log into the AWS console to review an EC2 instance.